# Ocular prosthesis NFT collection

## This NFT collection revolves around the ocular prosthesis of Enzo Fragale, a student at EPF Engineering School who was born with retinoblastoma and lost his right eye due to this cancer at 11 months old. Unique photos of real prosthesis put in evidence the handicraft involved in the process to make a realistic substitute to a human eye. Since prosthesis are changed every 1-5 years, they are unique and limited and one could be a proud honor of one of these NFTs. Several of them are prosthesis from the making off in the laboratory or even custom ones. Furthermore, by buying one of them, you will receive a vote to which eye would be drawn next in the NFT with a guaranteed selfie of the owner wearing it.

This project was done during EPF Engineering School's 5th year cybersecurity module of the Data Engineering Major. The technologies required to make this project work were numerous so we will explain them all. First of all, we installed Hardhat, an JavaScript extension, that we will use to implement and deploy our smart contract. The smart contract code is essential as it allows one to own NFTs and transfer them between users based on specific rules similarly to a sales agreement. We also needed to create a digital wallet that had to possess a minimum of tokens in order to pay the transaction fees on the blockchain. To do so, we used a browser extension called Metamask and joined the Mumbai polygon testnet (a blockchain whose tokens are fake and have no value hence for testing purpose). To retrieve the tokens, we used a faucet which is basically a source of tokens that distributes small amounts of MATIC but enough to pay the fees necesary to create contracts and mint NFTs. After configurating our hardhat with our Metamask wallet private key, we can now write our smart contract and deploy it. Then, we uploaded our images to pinata, a cloud that uses the InterPlanetary File System (IPFS) and that stores all kinds of web3 contents including NFTs. We could mint the image by itself to create our NFT but we would lack information about it such as a description, a title and other attributes we might add. To do this, we need to create metadata about our images and link these attributes, title and description to our image via the pinata IPFS URI address. Fortunately, the blockchain is created for this so we can now upload all of our metadata to pinata as well and then mint our NFTs. To mint them, we need to specify our smart contract address as well as our Metamask public key and our metadata URI and let hardhat run the script. Finally, we can see our NFTs uploaded on OPENSEA, the world's first and largest marketplace for NFTs by accessing the smart contract address and our token IDs. Since we created a collection in our smart contract, our NFTs all embed some information and we can see all of them at this link:

# https://testnets.opensea.io/collection/ocular-prosthesis 